client/src/pages/privacy.md, before:

---
title: Privacy policy
layout: privacy
---

*Our privacy policy tells you how we handle your personal information. We’ll update this policy when our information handling practices change.*

## About this policy 

The Privacy Act 1988 requires us to have a privacy policy. This privacy policy outlines how Digital Profession handles personal information.  

**Personal information** is information or an opinion about an identified individual or an individual who is reasonably identifiable. 

This policy is written in simple language. This policy applies to the oneAPS Opportunities pilot website managed by the Digital Transformation Agency (DTA). 

## What we collect 

We may collect personal information about you when it’s reasonably necessary for, or directly related to the Digital Profession’s oneAPS Opportunities pilot.  

The kinds of personal information we may collect includes all the following. 

Information about you and your circumstances, such as your: 

* name 

* work email address 

* work contact number 

* employment information such as role title and APS department or agency 

* professional details, such as your pitch, LinkedIn profile URL, and a résumé 

Information about your interactions with us, such as: 

* opportunities you’ve posted 

* opportunities you’ve submitted responses for 

* feedback and complaints 

* any other special service arrangements. 

We may also collect information about how you use our online services and applications, such as: 

* pages you visit 

* online forms you fill in 

* your interactions. 

## Why we collect information 

We collect personal information about you where it is reasonably necessary for, or directly related to, the Digital Profession’s oneAPS Opportunities pilot. 

We collect, hold, use and disclose personal information in relation to our other functions and activities, including: 

* feedback, user research and user surveys for our membership to better provide offerings and service that our users want. 

### To deliver services 

We may collect your personal information when it is reasonably necessary for delivering services. For example, we may collect your personal information to: 

* confirm your identity 

* communicate with you, including by SMS or email 

* provide advice about available support 

* manage complaints and feedback 

* participate in merits and judicial review matters 

* manage and respond to requests for information 

* administer and provide online services. 

### For market and user research 

We may share your personal information to conduct statistical analysis, market research and user research to improve service delivery. We may engage external companies to conduct this research on our behalf. 

We will first ask your permission before sharing your information. If you do not wish to participate in the market research, please contact us.  

### Only when required with third parties 

We may disclose your information to Australian Government agencies, state and territory agencies and third parties. The disclosure of your personal information will depend on the services to which the information relates. 

We will have a statement available on our online forms which will alert you as to what purpose the information will be collected for, and how it will be used. Where there is an option for opt-in, this functionality will also be available.  

### To provide you with a more personalised experience 

We may use information about your online experience to help us improve the oneAPS Opportunities pilot. 

We may need to share your personal information if we’re authorised or required by law to do so. 

## How we collect and use your information 

At all times we try to only collect the information we need for the function or activity we are carrying out. 

Personal information collected by our oneAPS Opportunities pilot about you is stored securely, and will not be used or disclosed without your prior consent for any purpose other than the service provided through this pilot (whether as an applicant, or opportunity creator)  and for purposes related to performance of the functions under the Public Services Act 1999 and the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (such as succession or workforce planning), or any other functions as permitted or required under a relevant law of the Commonwealth. 

If you fill in an online form on any of our pages, we may collect the email address you provide and any other identifying information you include, such as a name or email. 

Other than circumstances such as required under law or directly related to serious threats to health and safety, we do not share personal information. 

If you ask us about an issue that needs to be dealt with by another agency, we will provide you with the necessary details so that you can contact that agency yourself. 

We do not automatically collect personal information about you when you visit this website. 

You can use this website without telling us who you are or revealing other personal information. Our website may contain links to other websites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices of any other site and they may have a different privacy policy. 

### Cookies 

Cookies are small data files transferred onto computers or devices by websites for record-keeping purposes and to enhance functionality on the website. 

Most browsers allow you to choose whether to accept cookies or not. If you do not wish to have cookies placed on your computer, please set your browser preferences to reject all cookies before accessing our website. 

### Website analytics 

Our website uses a range of analytics services which send website traffic data to servers offshore. 

These services do not identify individual users or associate your IP address with any other data held by the company for other purposes. 

We use reports provided by analytics providers to help us understand website traffic and web-page usage. 

By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you for the purposes set out above. 

You can opt out of analytics if you disable or refuse the cookie or disable JavaScript. 

### Social networking services 

We use social networking services such as LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter to talk with the public and our staff. When you talk with us using these services, we may collect your personal information to communicate with you and the public. 

The social networking service will also handle your personal information for its own purposes. These services have their own privacy policies. You can access the privacy policies for these services on their websites. 

## Quality of personal information 

To ensure that the personal information we collect is accurate, up-to-date and complete we: 

* record information in a consistent format 

* where necessary, confirm the accuracy of information we collect from a third party or a public source 

* promptly add updated or new personal information to existing records 

* regularly audit our contact lists to check their accuracy. 

We also review the quality of personal information before we use or disclose it. 

## Storage and security of personal information 

This site is hosted and stored in Australia in secure, government-accredited facilities. To help protect the privacy of the data and personal information we collect and hold, we maintain physical, technical and administrative safeguards. 

Access to your personal information is restricted to DTA employees working on the oneAPS Opportunities pilot who need it to provide services to you and to the Opportunity creator who is seeking a person to fulfill their opportunity. We take steps to protect the security of the personal information we hold from both internal and external threats by: 

* regularly assessing the risk of misuse, interference, loss, and unauthorised access, modification or disclosure of that information 

* taking measures to address those risks, for example, we keep a record (audit trail) of when someone has added, changed or deleted personal information held in our electronic databases and regularly check that staff only access those records when they need to 

* conducting regular internal and external audits to assess whether we have adequately complied with or implemented these measures. 

## Accessing and correcting your personal information 

Under the Privacy Act (Australian Privacy Principles 12 and 13) you have the right to ask for access to personal information that we hold about you and ask that we correct that personal information.  

You can ask for access or correction by contacting us and we must respond within 30 days. If you ask, we must give you access to your personal information, and take reasonable steps to correct it if we consider it is incorrect, unless there is a law that allows or requires us not to. 

We will ask you to verify your identity before we give you access to your information or correct it, and we will try to make the process as simple as possible. If we refuse to give you access to, or correct, your personal information, we must notify you in writing setting out the reasons. 

If we make a correction and we have disclosed the incorrect information to others, you can ask us to tell them about the correction. We must do so unless there is a valid reason not to. 

If we refuse to correct your personal information, you can ask us to associate with it (for example, attach or link) a statement that you believe the information is incorrect and why. 

You also have the right under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 to request access to documents that we hold and ask for information that we hold about you to be changed or annotated if it is incomplete, incorrect, out-of-date or misleading.   

## How to contact us 

Requests for access to your own personal information are free. 

Request for your own personal information may be made to: 

**Email** 
<a href="mailto:foi@dta.gov.au">foi@dta.gov.au</a>
   
**Post**  
FOI Officer  
Digital Transformation Agency  
PO Box 457  
Canberra City 
ACT 2601

We will respond to request to access (and where relevant, correct) your own personal information within 30 days of receiving the request.  If we are required or permitted to refuse access, we will give you a written notice setting out: 

* the reasons for refusing access (unless it would be inappropriate and unreasonable to do so having regard to the circumstances); and 

* the mechanisms available to you to complain about the refusal. 

## How to make a complaint 

If you wish to make a complaint about how the DTA has handled your personal information, please do so in writing.  If you need help lodging a complaint, you can contact the Privacy Officer on 02 6120 8595. 

Complaints can be made to: 

**Email** 
<a href="mailto:privacy@dta.gov.au">privacy@dta.gov.au</a>

**Post**  
Privacy Officer  
Digital Transformation Agency  
PO Box 457  
Canberra City 
ACT 2601 

If we receive a complaint from you, we will acknowledge your complaint within 3 business days of receiving the complaint.   

We will respond to your complaint within 30 days (or another timeframe agreed with you) of receiving your complaint and explain the actions we have taken or propose to take to address the issues raised in your complaint.  If you are not satisfied with DTA’s response to your complaint, you may ask for a review by a senior officer within DTA.  You may also lodge a complaint to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner.

To lodge a complaint to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner:

**Email**   
<a href="mailto:enquiries@oaic.gov.au">enquiries@oaic.gov.au</a> 

**Post**    
GPO Box 5218  
Sydney NSW 2001

Commit message:

Replace references to DTA with APSC (#68)
* Update 1-about-oneaps.md

Removed reference to DTA

* Update 2-how-it-works.md

Updated email to APSC

* Update 3-creating-an-opportunity.md

* Update 5-onboarding.md

Updated to APSC email

* Replace DTA email address with APSC email address

* Replace Digital Transformation Agency with Australian Public Service Commission

* Update FOI contact details

* Update privacy contact details

* Replace DTA with APSC

* Remove footer link to DTA's projects

* Update link to join Digital Profession

* Update blog post link on home page

* Update Qualtrics survey link

* Improve wording on onboarding page

Co-authored-by: Krista Hulm <84947269+Kristaleannegit@users.noreply.github.com>

client/src/pages/privacy.md, after:

---
title: Privacy policy
layout: privacy
---

*Our privacy policy tells you how we handle your personal information. We’ll update this policy when our information handling practices change.*

## About this policy 

The Privacy Act 1988 requires us to have a privacy policy. This privacy policy outlines how Digital Profession handles personal information.  

**Personal information** is information or an opinion about an identified individual or an individual who is reasonably identifiable. 

This policy is written in simple language. This policy applies to the oneAPS Opportunities pilot website managed by the Australian Public Service Commission (APSC). 

## What we collect 

We may collect personal information about you when it’s reasonably necessary for, or directly related to the Digital Profession’s oneAPS Opportunities pilot.  

The kinds of personal information we may collect includes all the following. 

Information about you and your circumstances, such as your: 

* name 

* work email address 

* work contact number 

* employment information such as role title and APS department or agency 

* professional details, such as your pitch, LinkedIn profile URL, and a résumé 

Information about your interactions with us, such as: 

* opportunities you’ve posted 

* opportunities you’ve submitted responses for 

* feedback and complaints 

* any other special service arrangements. 

We may also collect information about how you use our online services and applications, such as: 

* pages you visit 

* online forms you fill in 

* your interactions. 

## Why we collect information 

We collect personal information about you where it is reasonably necessary for, or directly related to, the Digital Profession’s oneAPS Opportunities pilot. 

We collect, hold, use and disclose personal information in relation to our other functions and activities, including: 

* feedback, user research and user surveys for our membership to better provide offerings and service that our users want. 

### To deliver services 

We may collect your personal information when it is reasonably necessary for delivering services. For example, we may collect your personal information to: 

* confirm your identity 

* communicate with you, including by SMS or email 

* provide advice about available support 

* manage complaints and feedback 

* participate in merits and judicial review matters 

* manage and respond to requests for information 

* administer and provide online services. 

### For market and user research 

We may share your personal information to conduct statistical analysis, market research and user research to improve service delivery. We may engage external companies to conduct this research on our behalf. 

We will first ask your permission before sharing your information. If you do not wish to participate in the market research, please contact us.  

### Only when required with third parties 

We may disclose your information to Australian Government agencies, state and territory agencies and third parties. The disclosure of your personal information will depend on the services to which the information relates. 

We will have a statement available on our online forms which will alert you as to what purpose the information will be collected for, and how it will be used. Where there is an option for opt-in, this functionality will also be available.  

### To provide you with a more personalised experience 

We may use information about your online experience to help us improve the oneAPS Opportunities pilot. 

We may need to share your personal information if we’re authorised or required by law to do so. 

## How we collect and use your information 

At all times we try to only collect the information we need for the function or activity we are carrying out. 

Personal information collected by our oneAPS Opportunities pilot about you is stored securely, and will not be used or disclosed without your prior consent for any purpose other than the service provided through this pilot (whether as an applicant, or opportunity creator)  and for purposes related to performance of the functions under the Public Services Act 1999 and the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (such as succession or workforce planning), or any other functions as permitted or required under a relevant law of the Commonwealth. 

If you fill in an online form on any of our pages, we may collect the email address you provide and any other identifying information you include, such as a name or email. 

Other than circumstances such as required under law or directly related to serious threats to health and safety, we do not share personal information. 

If you ask us about an issue that needs to be dealt with by another agency, we will provide you with the necessary details so that you can contact that agency yourself. 

We do not automatically collect personal information about you when you visit this website. 

You can use this website without telling us who you are or revealing other personal information. Our website may contain links to other websites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices of any other site and they may have a different privacy policy. 

### Cookies 

Cookies are small data files transferred onto computers or devices by websites for record-keeping purposes and to enhance functionality on the website. 

Most browsers allow you to choose whether to accept cookies or not. If you do not wish to have cookies placed on your computer, please set your browser preferences to reject all cookies before accessing our website. 

### Website analytics 

Our website uses a range of analytics services which send website traffic data to servers offshore. 

These services do not identify individual users or associate your IP address with any other data held by the company for other purposes. 

We use reports provided by analytics providers to help us understand website traffic and web-page usage. 

By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you for the purposes set out above. 

You can opt out of analytics if you disable or refuse the cookie or disable JavaScript. 

### Social networking services 

We use social networking services such as LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter to talk with the public and our staff. When you talk with us using these services, we may collect your personal information to communicate with you and the public. 

The social networking service will also handle your personal information for its own purposes. These services have their own privacy policies. You can access the privacy policies for these services on their websites. 

## Quality of personal information 

To ensure that the personal information we collect is accurate, up-to-date and complete we: 

* record information in a consistent format 

* where necessary, confirm the accuracy of information we collect from a third party or a public source 

* promptly add updated or new personal information to existing records 

* regularly audit our contact lists to check their accuracy. 

We also review the quality of personal information before we use or disclose it. 

## Storage and security of personal information 

This site is hosted and stored in Australia in secure, government-accredited facilities. To help protect the privacy of the data and personal information we collect and hold, we maintain physical, technical and administrative safeguards. 

Access to your personal information is restricted to APSC employees working on the oneAPS Opportunities pilot who need it to provide services to you and to the Opportunity creator who is seeking a person to fulfill their opportunity. We take steps to protect the security of the personal information we hold from both internal and external threats by: 

* regularly assessing the risk of misuse, interference, loss, and unauthorised access, modification or disclosure of that information 

* taking measures to address those risks, for example, we keep a record (audit trail) of when someone has added, changed or deleted personal information held in our electronic databases and regularly check that staff only access those records when they need to 

* conducting regular internal and external audits to assess whether we have adequately complied with or implemented these measures. 

## Accessing and correcting your personal information 

Under the Privacy Act (Australian Privacy Principles 12 and 13) you have the right to ask for access to personal information that we hold about you and ask that we correct that personal information.  

You can ask for access or correction by contacting us and we must respond within 30 days. If you ask, we must give you access to your personal information, and take reasonable steps to correct it if we consider it is incorrect, unless there is a law that allows or requires us not to. 

We will ask you to verify your identity before we give you access to your information or correct it, and we will try to make the process as simple as possible. If we refuse to give you access to, or correct, your personal information, we must notify you in writing setting out the reasons. 

If we make a correction and we have disclosed the incorrect information to others, you can ask us to tell them about the correction. We must do so unless there is a valid reason not to. 

If we refuse to correct your personal information, you can ask us to associate with it (for example, attach or link) a statement that you believe the information is incorrect and why. 

You also have the right under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 to request access to documents that we hold and ask for information that we hold about you to be changed or annotated if it is incomplete, incorrect, out-of-date or misleading.   

## How to contact us 

Requests for access to your own personal information are free. 

Request for your own personal information may be made to: 

**Email** 
<a href="mailto:foi@apsc.gov.au">foi@apsc.gov.au</a>
   
**Post**  
FOI Contact Officer  
Australian Public Service Commission  
B Block, Treasury Building, Parkes Place West  
Parkes ACT 2600

or  

FOI Contact Officer  
Australian Public Service Commission  
GPO Box 3176  
Canberra ACT 2601  

We will respond to request to access (and where relevant, correct) your own personal information within 30 days of receiving the request.  If we are required or permitted to refuse access, we will give you a written notice setting out: 

* the reasons for refusing access (unless it would be inappropriate and unreasonable to do so having regard to the circumstances); and 

* the mechanisms available to you to complain about the refusal. 

## How to make a complaint 

If you wish to make a complaint about how the APSC has handled your personal information, please do so in writing.

Complaints can be made to: 

**Email** 
<a href="mailto:privacy@apsc.gov.au">privacy@apsc.gov.au</a>

If we receive a complaint from you, we will acknowledge your complaint within 3 business days of receiving the complaint.   

We will respond to your complaint within 30 days (or another timeframe agreed with you) of receiving your complaint and explain the actions we have taken or propose to take to address the issues raised in your complaint.  If you are not satisfied with APSC’s response to your complaint, you may ask for a review by a senior officer within APSC.  You may also lodge a complaint to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner.

To lodge a complaint to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner:

**Email**   
<a href="mailto:enquiries@oaic.gov.au">enquiries@oaic.gov.au</a> 

**Post**    
GPO Box 5218  
Sydney NSW 2001
