client/src/pages/help-pages/3-creating-an-opportunity.md, before:

---
title: Creating an opportunity
layout: help
---

<nav class="au-inpage-nav-links" aria-label="in page navigation">
  <h2 class="au-inpage-nav-links__heading">On this page:</h2>
  <ul class="au-link-list">
    <li><a href="#Identifying-flexible-opportunities">Identifying flexible opportunities</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Posting-an-opportunity-is-quick-and-easy">Posting an opportunity is quick and easy</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Information-you-will-need">Information you will need</a></li>
    <li><a href="#How-to-write-a-great-opportunity-post">How to write a great opportunity post</a></li>
  </ul>
</nav>

## <span id="Identifying-flexible-opportunities">Identifying flexible opportunities</span>

There are many types of digital opportunities you can post, depending on what you/your team need or are looking to do. Think of an opportunity like a **‘micro-assignment’** where APS staff can work on a task or in a role for a short period of time.

We encourage opportunities that are:

- From a couple of hours to a few days or a few months
- Able to offer flexible working arrangements (for example, completed remotely) 
- Focused on digital and data skills and capabilities (ICT capabilities and human-centred capabilities such as design and research).

Examples include: 

- Video production and editing
- Web design and development
- Content writing
- Data analysis
- Mentorships
- Subject matter expert advice
- Event volunteers

Not sure exactly what skills you are looking for? Feel free to get in touch with the Specialist Advice and Mobility Team at <a href="mailto:specialist.advice@dta.gov.au" target="_blank" rel="external noreferrer">specialist.advice@dta.gov.au</a>

## <span id="Posting-an-opportunity-is-quick-and-easy">Posting an opportunity is quick and easy</span> 

When posting an opportunity you will be prompted to register an account for the oneAPS Opportunities site. This involves providing your contact details and validating your government email address. 

When you have an idea of what opportunity you would like to create, it takes less than 10 minutes to post your opportunity. 

Don’t worry if you make a mistake – you can come back and edit your post later. 

## <span id="Information-you-will-need">Information you will need</span> 

Your opportunity post will include:

-	A name for the opportunity
-	1-2 paragraphs describing what you need the person to do
-	A few sentences about what the person will gain from doing this opportunity
-	1-2 paragraphs describing your team and how they work
-	A list of relevant skills/attributes needed
-	Logistics such as how many people are needed, location, start and finish dates, the amount of time you need the person for (hours per week) and the level of security clearance needed to complete the opportunity.

## <span id="How-to-write-a-great-opportunity-post">How to write a great opportunity post</span> 

Well-written opportunities will attract better qualified and more informed applicants.

The following tips will help you write clear and descriptive opportunity announcements.

### Keep opportunities small and simple

-	If you have a big project, consider dividing it into smaller tasks and make each task a separate opportunity.
-	You can post several opportunities at the same time, rather than sequentially, to make sure your entire project gets done.

### Drop the jargon

-	Write your opportunities in plain language — use simple words and phrases.
-	Use full office names instead of acronyms and avoid using office-specific slang.
-	Include links to relevant resources that will help participants understand what they will be doing.

### Speak to the participant

-	Use pronouns to personalise the content and experience (i.e. use “you”, “your”).
-	Take the participant’s perspective — what do they need to know about this opportunity? What’s in it for them?
-	Only include content that the participant needs.
-	Define exactly what needs to be done and what deliverables you expect. Include links or examples of documents that the participant will need to work on or will better explain the tasks.
-	Read the opportunity as if you’re new to the government – does it make sense?

### Organise the content logically

-	Place the most important information at the top of each section in the opportunity announcement.
-	Use bulleted lists to break out separate duties and qualifications.

### Double check your work

Once you’ve written your opportunity, ask yourself these key questions:

- Does the content make sense when you read it out loud?
- Did you put the right content in the right sections?
- Is any of the content repetitive?

Commit message:

Replace references to DTA with APSC (#68)
* Update 1-about-oneaps.md

Removed reference to DTA

* Update 2-how-it-works.md

Updated email to APSC

* Update 3-creating-an-opportunity.md

* Update 5-onboarding.md

Updated to APSC email

* Replace DTA email address with APSC email address

* Replace Digital Transformation Agency with Australian Public Service Commission

* Update FOI contact details

* Update privacy contact details

* Replace DTA with APSC

* Remove footer link to DTA's projects

* Update link to join Digital Profession

* Update blog post link on home page

* Update Qualtrics survey link

* Improve wording on onboarding page

Co-authored-by: Krista Hulm <84947269+Kristaleannegit@users.noreply.github.com>

client/src/pages/help-pages/3-creating-an-opportunity.md, after:

---
title: Creating an opportunity
layout: help
---

<nav class="au-inpage-nav-links" aria-label="in page navigation">
  <h2 class="au-inpage-nav-links__heading">On this page:</h2>
  <ul class="au-link-list">
    <li><a href="#Identifying-flexible-opportunities">Identifying flexible opportunities</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Posting-an-opportunity-is-quick-and-easy">Posting an opportunity is quick and easy</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Information-you-will-need">Information you will need</a></li>
    <li><a href="#How-to-write-a-great-opportunity-post">How to write a great opportunity post</a></li>
  </ul>
</nav>

## <span id="Identifying-flexible-opportunities">Identifying flexible opportunities</span>

There are many types of digital opportunities you can post, depending on what you/your team need or are looking to do. Think of an opportunity like a **‘micro-assignment’** where APS staff can work on a task or in a role for a short period of time.

We encourage opportunities that are:

- A few hours or days to a few months long
- Seeking digital or data skills
- Able to be completed flexibly by remote working or part-time
- Do not need onboarding to your organisation’s ICT systems

Examples include: 

- Video production and editing
- Web design and development
- Content writing
- Data analysis
- Mentorships
- Subject matter expert advice
- Event volunteers

The following opportunities do not fit the program:

- Secondments or temporary transfers
- Opportunities where there is a change to pay and conditions
- Time sensitive or high-risk opportunities
- Opportunities which contain Sensitive or Classified information

Not sure exactly what skills you are looking for? Feel free to get in touch with us at <a href="mailto:specialist.advice@apsc.gov.au" target="_blank" rel="external noreferrer">specialist.advice@apsc.gov.au</a>

## <span id="Posting-an-opportunity-is-quick-and-easy">Posting an opportunity is quick and easy</span> 

When posting an opportunity you will be prompted to register an account for the oneAPS Opportunities site. This involves providing your contact details and validating your government email address. 

When you have an idea of what opportunity you would like to create, it takes less than 10 minutes to post your opportunity. 

Don’t worry if you make a mistake – you can come back and edit your post later. 

## <span id="Information-you-will-need">Information you will need</span> 

Your opportunity post will include:

-	A name for the opportunity
-	1-2 paragraphs describing what you need the person to do
-	A few sentences about what the person will gain from doing this opportunity
-	1-2 paragraphs describing your team and how they work
-	A list of relevant skills/attributes needed
-	Logistics such as how many people are needed, location, start and finish dates, the amount of time you need the person for (hours per week) and the level of security clearance needed to complete the opportunity.

## <span id="How-to-write-a-great-opportunity-post">How to write a great opportunity post</span> 

Well-written opportunities will attract better qualified and more informed applicants.

The following tips will help you write clear and descriptive opportunity announcements.

### Keep opportunities small and simple

-	If you have a big project, consider dividing it into smaller tasks and make each task a separate opportunity.
-	You can post several opportunities at the same time, rather than sequentially, to make sure your entire project gets done.

### Drop the jargon

-	Write your opportunities in plain language — use simple words and phrases.
-	Use full office names instead of acronyms and avoid using office-specific slang.
-	Include links to relevant resources that will help participants understand what they will be doing.

### Speak to the participant

-	Use pronouns to personalise the content and experience (i.e. use “you”, “your”).
-	Take the participant’s perspective — what do they need to know about this opportunity? What’s in it for them?
-	Only include content that the participant needs.
-	Define exactly what needs to be done and what deliverables you expect. Include links or examples of documents that the participant will need to work on or will better explain the tasks.
-	Read the opportunity as if you’re new to the government – does it make sense?

### Organise the content logically

-	Place the most important information at the top of each section in the opportunity announcement.
-	Use bulleted lists to break out separate duties and qualifications.

### Double check your work

Once you’ve written your opportunity, ask yourself these key questions:

- Does the content make sense when you read it out loud?
- Did you put the right content in the right sections?
- Is any of the content repetitive?
